Docs 9081 data retention (#148)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/performance-and-impact.adoc

= Anypoint Monitoring Performance, Impact, and Limits

Anypoint Monitoring processes and retains massive amounts of data with a low performance impact. Titanium subscribers receive an enhanced data retention package and more storage than Gold and Platinum subscribers. Anypoint Monitoring users can also improve their user experience with adjustments to screen resolution and efficiently parsed lines of log data.

== Mule Monitoring Agent Performance Impact

Based on typical usage, the expected CPU utilization is less than 5%. For more information, refer to xref:monitoring::configure-monitoring-cloudhub#performance-impact[Configure and Enable Anypoint Monitoring for Mule Apps (CloudHub)].

Anypoint Monitoring asynchronously collects data at a minute resolution, which does not block Mule runtime data processing.

== Data Retention and Limits

=== Gold and Platinum Subscription Limits

Gold and Platinum subscribers to Anypoint Platform receive modest data retention and feature limits:

Logs::
Log limits are documented in xref:runtime-manager::viewing-log-data.adoc#log-persistence[Runtime Manager].

Application Metrics::

> 30 days

Author: ```suggestion
30 days.
```

Enhanced API Metrics::
30 days. The limit for data in the *Client Applications* tab is 1 hour.

Basic Alerts::

> 50 basic alerts

Author: ```suggestion
50 basic alerts.
```

=== Titanium Subscription Limits

Titanium subscribers to Anypoint Platform receive more robust data retention and feature limits:

Logs::
In raw format, your logs can occupy as much space as you receive with your Titanium subscription. Note that the storage space you receive with your Titanium subscription is used to store logs, metrics data, and search indexes. As indexes and metrics do not take up much storage capacity, the majority of the allocated storage can be used to store the raw log data.

Searchable logs::
10% of purchased storage can be allocated for searchable logs. +
Anypoint Monitoring creates indexes on raw logs to enable you to efficiently and quickly perform log search queries. Anypoint Monitoring indexes the most recent logs for searching, up to 10% of the total purchased storage size. You can download logs to access older logs.

Application Metrics::

> 365 days

Author: ```suggestion
365 days.
```

> 365 days

Author: ```suggestion
365 days.
```

Enhanced API Metrics::
30 days. The following limits also apply:
* Data in the *Client Applications* tab is limited to 1 hour.
* Data from *api_path_metric* and *api_client_ip_metric* tables in advanced mode of custom dashboards is limited to 1 hour.
* Geo hash is 1 hour.

Custom Metrics::
365 days in production environments.
// future: 30 days storage only for Sandbox - this is currently not implemented. We can either skip this part, or we can document 30 days which is future looking

Advanced Alerts::

> 20 per parent organization

Author: ```suggestion
20 per parent organization.
```

> = Anypoint Monitoring Performance, Impact, and Limits

Author: ```suggestion
= Anypoint Monitoring Performance Impact, Limits, and Data Retention
```

> Anypoint Monitoring processes and retains massive amounts of data with a low performance impact. Titanium subscribers receive an enhanced data retention package and more storage than Gold and Platinum subscribers. Anypoint Monitoring users can also improve their user experience with adjustments to screen resolution and efficiently parsed lines of log data.

Author: ```suggestion
Anypoint Monitoring processes and retains massive amounts of data with a low performance impact. Titanium subscribers receive an enhanced data retention package and more storage than Gold and Platinum subscribers. For better performance and readability, your log data is truncated into short lines.

 You can also improve your Anypoint Monitoring experience by adjusting your screen resolution. 

```

> == Mule Monitoring Agent Performance Impact

Author: Fixed title. But the agent is part of Monitoring and deals with sending data to the endpoint. This is the piece that would, potentially, have a performance impact. We are reassuring them that it's minimal.

> Based on typical usage, the expected CPU utilization is less than 5%. For more information, refer to xref:monitoring::configure-monitoring-cloudhub#performance-impact[Configure and Enable Anypoint Monitoring for Mule Apps (CloudHub)].

Author: ```suggestion
Based on typical use, the expected CPU utilization from the Mule monitoring agent is less than 5%. For more information, refer to xref:monitoring::configure-monitoring-cloudhub#performance-impact[Configure and Enable Anypoint Monitoring for Mule Apps (CloudHub)].
```

> Anypoint Monitoring asynchronously collects data at a minute resolution, which does not block Mule runtime data processing.

Author: ```suggestion
Anypoint Monitoring asynchronously collects data at a resolution of one minute, which does not block Mule runtime data processing.
```

> 

Author: I don't think so, but I changed it anyway. Good catch. Never even considered that.

== Data Retention and Limits

=== Gold and Platinum Subscription Limits

Gold and Platinum subscribers to Anypoint Platform receive modest data retention and feature limits:

> 

Author: Nope, you're correct.

Logs::
Log limits are documented in xref:runtime-manager::viewing-log-data.adoc#log-persistence[Runtime Manager].

Application Metrics::
30 days.

Enhanced API Metrics::
30 days. The limit for data in the *Client Applications* tab is 1 hour.

Basic Alerts::
50 basic alerts.

=== Titanium Subscription Limits

Titanium subscribers to Anypoint Platform receive more robust data retention and feature limits:

Logs::

> In raw format, your logs can occupy as much space as you receive with your Titanium subscription. Note that the storage space you receive with your Titanium subscription is used to store logs, metrics data, and search indexes. As indexes and metrics do not take up much storage capacity, the majority of the allocated storage can be used to store the raw log data.

Reviewer: @michael-lee-mulesoft I don't think storage space purchased is consumed by the search index.  It is only consumed by the archived logs and metrics.  Search index occupies an additional storage above and beyond the purchased storage limit.

Reviewer 2: @jiang-wu You are right.

@sarathecoubian `and search indexes` is not right. 
`As metrics do not take up much storage capacity`

Searchable logs::

> 10% of purchased storage can be allocated for searchable logs. +

Reviewer: @michael-lee-mulesoft  Can you please confirm my understanding below?  Search index is not taking 10% away from the archive storage limit.  It is an additional storage used for building search index.  

E.g. if storage limit is 100GB, then 100GB is for archiving and an additional 10GB is for search index.

Reviewer 2: @jiang-wu You are right. Search index will not take way space from archive storage limit. It is additional storage for search index.

@sarathecoubian `can be allocated` is not right.

Author: ```suggestion
10% of your purchased storage space. +
```

> Anypoint Monitoring creates indexes on raw logs to enable you to efficiently and quickly perform log search queries. Anypoint Monitoring indexes the most recent logs for searching, up to 10% of the total purchased storage size. You can download logs to access older logs.

Author: We hold on to their older logs for them, which they can then download, but they can search their most recent ones in the UI.

Application Metrics::
365 days.

Enhanced API Metrics::
30 days. The following limits also apply:
* Data in the *Client Applications* tab is limited to 1 hour.

> * Data from *api_path_metric* and *api_client_ip_metric* tables in advanced mode of custom dashboards is limited to 1 hour.

Author: Yes.

* Geo hash is 1 hour.

Custom Metrics::
365 days in production environments.
// future: 30 days storage only for Sandbox - this is currently not implemented. We can either skip this part, or we can document 30 days which is future looking

Advanced Alerts::
20 per parent organization.

Basic Alerts::
50 times the number of production vCores in your organization. Note that you can also use your alert allowance for sandbox deployments, but this limit subject to the overall xref:access-management::business-groups.adoc#redistribute-resources[production vCore limit].

== Screen Resolution

Use a minimum screen resolution of 1024 by 768 pixels.

== Logging

> In Log Management, the maximum length of one line of log data is 8 KB (including date and thread metadata). Single lines that are longer than 8 KB are truncated at the 8 KB mark.

Reviewer 3: Why is Log Management init. capped? Is it a label?

Author: ```suggestion
When you manage logs, the maximum length of one line of log data is 8 KB (including date and thread metadata). Single lines that are longer than 8 KB are truncated at the 8 KB mark.
```

 You can also improve your Anypoint Monitoring experience by adjusting your screen resolution. 

== Mule Monitoring Agent Performance Impact

Based on typical use, the expected CPU utilization from the Mule monitoring agent is less than 5%. For more information, refer to xref:monitoring::configure-monitoring-cloudhub#performance-impact[Configure and Enable Anypoint Monitoring for Mule Apps (CloudHub)].

Anypoint Monitoring asynchronously collects data at a resolution of one minute, which does not block Mule runtime data processing.

== Data Retention and Limits

=== Gold and Platinum Subscription Limits

Gold and Platinum subscribers to Anypoint Platform receive modest data retention and feature limits:

Logs::
Log limits are documented in xref:runtime-manager::viewing-log-data.adoc#log-persistence[Runtime Manager].

Application metrics::
30 days.

Enhanced API metrics::
30 days. The limit for data in the *Client Applications* tab is 1 hour.

Basic alerts::
50 basic alerts.

=== Titanium Subscription Limits

Titanium subscribers to Anypoint Platform receive more robust data retention and feature limits:

Logs::

> In raw format, your logs can occupy as much space as you receive with your Titanium subscription. Note that the storage space you receive with your Titanium subscription is used to store logs, metrics data, and search indexes. Because indexes and metrics do not take up much storage capacity, you can use the majority of your storage for raw log data.

Author: ```suggestion
In raw format, your logs can occupy as much space as you receive with your Titanium subscription. Note that the storage space you receive with your Titanium subscription is used to store logs and metrics data. Because metrics do not take up much storage capacity, you can use the majority of your storage for raw log data.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: @sarathecoubian  Could you review this whole page? There are some minor edits that I think are needed. For example, the title `Anypoint Monitoring Performance, Impact, and Limits", and the subsequent 1 liner after that title, does not make sense. I think it requires just a brief paragraph to provide an overview what this page is about, but the current language doesn't make sense.

In addition, the section name `Data Retention and Aggregation` should be changed to `Data Retention and Limits`. The line below that says "...asychronously collect data..." doesn't make sense in this section. A better place for it would be in the "agent performance impact" section.

Author: Sure thing.

Author: Added. I struggled with that opener... Any ideas? I'd love to summarize everything that's in here without sounding so stiff.

Anypoint Monitoring asynchronously collects data, which does not block Mule runtime data processing.

=== Gold and Platinum Subscriptions

Gold and Platinum subscribers to Anypoint Platform receive modest data retention and feature limits:

Logs::
Log limits are documented in xref:runtime-manager::viewing-log-data.adoc#log-persistence[Runtime Manager].

Application Metrics::
30 days

Enhanced API Metrics::
30 days. The limit for data in the *Client Applications* tab is 1 hour.

Basic Alerts::
50 basic alerts

////
Gold and Platinum subscribers to Anypoint Platform receive

> * Minute Resolution for Metrics.

Author: Should minute resolution for metrics go somewhere? 🤔  Wasn't sure what that legacy text is trying to convey.

Reviewer 4: Sure. We can lump this info together with the statement that we asynchronously gather metrics data, at a minute resolution.

* Gold and Platinum subscriptions:
 ** API analytics metrics data are retained for 90 days.
 ** Application metrics data are retained for 30 days.
////

=== Titanium Subscriptions

Titanium subscribers to Anypoint Platform receive more robust data retention and feature limits:

Logs::

> In raw format, your log limit is equal to the storage space that you receive with your Titanium subscription.

Reviewer 4: I wouldn't use definitive word like "equal to". How about something like "Storage: The storage space you receive with your Titanium subscription is used to store both logs, metrics data, and search indexes. As indexes and metrics do not take up much storage capacity, you can expect majority of the allocated storage will be used to store the raw log data."

Author: ```suggestion
In raw format, your logs can occupy as much space as you receive with your Titanium subscription. Note that the storage space you receive with your Titanium subscription is used to store logs, metrics data, and search indexes. As indexes and metrics do not take up much storage capacity, the majority of the allocated storage can be used to store the raw log data.
```

> // do we have a link for this...?

Author: ```suggestion
```

Searchable logs::

> 10% of purchased storage is searchable by size, but not by day. For example, you can use up 10% for 5 days of logs or 25 days. You can also download logs.

Reviewer 4: This reads a bit funny, and we should provide more context regarding what this is about. Suggestion: "Anypoint Monitoring creates indexes on raw logs in order to allow customers to efficiently and quickly perform log search queries. We index the most recent logs for searching, up to the 10% of the total log size. To access logs that are older, they can be downloaded. See ......"

Author: 10% is size limit for searchable logs - note index limit?

Author: ```suggestion
10% of purchased storage can be allocated for searchable logs. +
Anypoint Monitoring creates indexes on raw logs to enable you to efficiently and quickly perform log search queries. Anypoint Monitoring indexes the most recent logs for searching, up to 10% of the total log size. You can download logs to access older logs.
```

Reviewer 2: “10% of the total log size” has caused some confusion before. “10% of the total purchased storage size” is probably better.

Application Metrics::
365 days

Enhanced API Metrics::
30 days. The following limits also apply:
* Data in the *Client Applications* tab is limited to 1 hour.

> * API path and API source IP is 1 hour.

Reviewer 4: These are not the exact names used in the product. Please use the exact metric name. There are several names in the product that could be a match. Please make sure to sync up with Michael's team, use the product and check for exact names.

Author: I'll check on these with Michael.

Reviewer 2: Data from `api_path_metric` and `api_client_ip_metric` tables in *Advanced Mode* of *Custom Dashboards* is limited to 1 hour.

Author: ```suggestion
* Data from *api_path_metric* and *api_client_ip_metric* tables in advanced mode of custom dashboards is limited to 1 hour.
```

* Geo hash is 1 hour.

Custom Metrics::

> 365 days for production metrics.

Reviewer 4: "production metrics" is unclear. How about " in production environments"?

Author: ```suggestion
365 days in production environments.
```
